1. General Provisions.

1.1. Two players. The game is played on a special board divided into two halves.
 Each player has 15 checkers on the board, which are placed on their part of the board along
 the right side. The players have different sets of checkers, usually black and white.
 The number of dice is 2. The players take turns throwing the dice.

2. The meaning of the game.

2.1. The player must make a full circle with all checkers (counterclockwise), enter them
 into the "home" and "throw them out" before the opponent does. The "home" for each player
 is the last quarter of the playing field - "white's home" - the 4th quarter
 and "black's home" - the 2nd quarter.

2.2. The term "throw out" means making a checker move so that it ends up outside the board.
Checkers can be "thrown out" only after all checkers have "come to the home".

3. The draw.

3.1. The player rolls two dice simultaneously. After the throw, the player moves any of his checkers
 a number of holes equal to the number of the dice that came up on one of the dice, and then any one
 checker a number of holes equal to the number of the dice that came up on the other dice. That is,
 if "three" came up on one dice and "five" on the other, then, accordingly, one can move one of his
 checkers three holes, and the other one five holes. In this case, one can move one checker eight holes.
 It does not matter which move to make first, the higher or lower number that came up.
 In this case, only one checker can be taken from the head.

 The first throw of the game provides players with an exception to the above rule. If one checker,
 which is the only one that can be taken from the head, does not pass, then the second one can be taken.
 There are only three such throws for a player: six-six (6**6); four-four (4**4); three-three (3**3).
 In this situation, it is not possible to play a full move with one checker, since the opponent's checkers
 standing on the head interfere. If one of these combinations comes up,
 the player can remove two checkers from the head.

 Note: When the whites first throw 5-5, and the blacks subsequently throw 4-4, the latter remove one
 checker from the head, playing one four, since the created obstacle prevents them from moving further.

3.2. If the same number of points (jackpot) comes up on both digs,
 then the player plays as if he threw 4 digs and can make 4 moves.

3.3. It is forbidden to put up a block (obstruction; bridge) of six checkers. But it is not forbidden
 to build blocks of 6 checkers, however, all fifteen of the opponent's checkers cannot be blocked.
 You have the right to build a barrier of six checkers only if at least one of the opponent's
 checkers is in front of this barrier.

3.4. If the opponent's checkers occupy six squares in front of a checker, then it is locked.

3.5. If the checkers are locked in such a way that the player cannot make a single move for
the number of points that he rolled on the zars (the checkers "do not move"),
then the player's points are lost, and the checkers do not move at all.

3.6. Any number of checkers may be placed on one square. You may not place your checker
 on a hole occupied by the opponent. In a situation where the checkers do not move, that is,
 the player cannot move them by the number of holes that fell on the zars
 (the checkers fall on occupied holes), all points are lost, and the player misses a move.
 In a situation where it is possible to make a move for the number of holes that fell on one
 of the zars, and it is impossible to move a checker by the number of holes that fell on the
 other zar, only the possible move is made, and the points of the second are lost. A player
 cannot refuse a full move, even if it is not advantageous to him.

3.7. The checkers are removed as follows. The player has the right to remove from the board
 a checker that is on a hole corresponding to the number of points thrown on the zarakh.
 For example, if 6-3 is thrown, the player can remove from the board one checker from the
 6th square and one checker from the 3rd square.

3.8. In the process of removing checkers from the home board, the player has the right to use
 the points that fell on the zarakh at his own discretion: he can play the checker in the home
 board or throw it away. In the process of removing checkers from one's own home board, it is
 allowed to remove checkers from the fields of a lower rank if there are no checkers in the
 fields of a higher rank. For example, if the dice show 6-5, and there are no checkers on the
 6 and 5 fields, then the player can take two checkers out of the house from the next in order,
 the fourth field (hole), if there are no checkers there either, then from the third,
 if there are none there either, then from the second, etc. The game ends.
